Your Excellency Prime Minister of Norway,
Delegates from both countries,
Friends from the media,
Namaskaar!

I am delighted to visit Norway. This beautiful country is a wonderful example of nature and human progress in harmony.

First and foremost, I sincerely thank the Prime Minister for this warm and gracious welcome. And on the important occasion of Norway’s Constitution Day, which was yesterday, I extend my heartfelt wishes, on behalf of the world’s largest democracy, to the people of the strong and vibrant democracy of Norway.

I was scheduled to visit Norway last year, but the trip had to be postponed due to the terrorist attack in Pahalgam. During that difficult time, Norway stood firmly with India against terrorism, reflecting the strength of our friendship. Today, as I visit Norway, I express my heartfelt gratitude for that support and solidarity.

Friends,

Today, the world is passing through a period of instability and uncertainty. Whether it is Ukraine or West Asia, many parts of the world continue to face conflict. At such a time, India and Europe are entering a new golden era in their relationship.

Last year, India and the European Free Trade Association implemented a historic Trade and Economic Partnership Agreement. This agreement is a blueprint for ensuring shared progress and prosperity between India and Norway. Under this agreement, the target is to bring 100 billion dollars of investment into India and create one million jobs over the next fifteen years. Today, both sides took several important decisions to translate the promise of this agreement into tangible outcomes.

Friends,

Today, we are elevating India – Norway relations into a Green Strategic Partnership. Through this strategic partnership, our companies will develop global solutions across sectors – from clean energy to climate resilience, and from the blue economy to green shipping – by combining India’s scale, speed, and talent with Norway’s technology and capital.

Friends,

Research, education, and innovation are also emerging as strong pillars of our relationship. Today, we agreed to expand research cooperation in areas such as sustainability, ocean energy, geology, and health.

In sectors such as engineering, AI, cyber, and digital technologies, we will connect our universities and startup ecosystems to make our partnership future ready. Our cooperation in skill development and talent mobility is also set to expand further.

Friends,

Norway is an important country in the Arctic region. We have a long-standing cooperation in Arctic and polar research. We are grateful to Norway for supporting the operations of India’s Arctic research station, “Himadri”. The MoU being signed today between Indian Space Research Organisation and the Norwegian Space Agency will also give new dimensions to our space cooperation.

Through deeper cooperation in all these areas, our scientists will contribute to understanding climate change, protecting fragile ecosystems, and securing the future of humanity.

Friends,

The Green Strategic Partnership between India and Norway will be beneficial for the entire world. We are very pleased that Norway is joining the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative today.

As two major maritime nations, we will work together to strengthen cooperation in the marine economy, maritime security, and capacity building. Today, we concluded a triangular development cooperation agreement. Together, we will now contribute to human development in countries of the Global South through India’s Digital Public Infrastructure projects.

Friends,

India and Norway both believe in a rules-based order, dialogue, and diplomacy. We are in agreement that no issue can be resolved through military conflict. Whether it is Ukraine or West Asia, we support and will continue to support, every effort toward an early end to the conflicts and the restoration of peace.

We are also in agreement that reform of global institutions is essential to address the growing global challenges. And eliminating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is our shared commitment.

Excellency,

From the Arctic to outer space, from green shipping to blue economy, and from energy security to food security, our cooperation is reaching new frontiers. Let us write a new chapter of a trusted, futuristic, and long-term partnership through our Green Strategic Partnership.

Thank you very much.

